Allows navigation apps to access information about Wi-Fi networks (#931)
smartdevicelink/sdl_evolution: proposals/NNNN-allows-navigation-apps-to-access-information-about-Wi-Fi-networks.md

# Allows navigation apps to access information about Wi-Fi networks

* Proposal: [SDL-NNNN](NNNN-allows-navigation-apps-to-access-information-about-Wi-Fi-networks.md)

> * Author: [zhouxin627](https://github.com/zhouxin627)

Author: @theresalech Thanks, fixed in [4fa3de6](https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_evolution/pull/931/commits/4fa3de688b1fde3e0ecc427d0489d13bc42b77a6)

* Status: **Awaiting review**
* Impacted Platforms: [Java Suite]

## Introduction
This proposal requires all current navigation apps to include a new permission(android.permission.ACCESS_WIFI_STATE) to benefit from the issue fix as follows:
https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_java_suite/pull/1259

## Motivation
Currently, there is some issues with navigation apps when users enable WiFi after the navigation apps are activated.
For example:
1. SDL failed to start video streaming if users enable WiFi on the head unit after the NaviAPP is activated.
https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_java_suite/issues/1235

> 2. SDL failed to start video streaming if users enable WiFi on the phone later 150s after the NaviAPP is activated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. SDL failed to start video streaming if users enable WiFi on the phone more than 150s after the NaviAPP is activated.

```

https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_java_suite/issues/1236

> To fix these issues, navigation apps need to access information about Wi-Fi networks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To fix these issues, navigation apps need to access information about WiFi networks.

```

> It would help SDL greatly improve the user experience on VideoStreaming via BT+Wi-Fi.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It would help SDL greatly improve the user experience on VideoStreaming via BT+WiFi.

```

## Proposed solution

> Add manifest permission to navigation apps that allows them to access information about Wi-Fi networks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add manifest permission to navigation apps that allows them to access information about WiFi networks.

```

```xml
    <!-- Required to check if WiFi is enabled -->
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.ACCESS_NETWORK_STATE" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.FOREGROUND_SERVICE" />
+   <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.ACCESS_WIFI_STATE" />
```

## Potential downsides
No downsides were identified.

## Impact on existing code

> This proposal has no breaking change, so there should be no impact on existing code.

Reviewer: This should include information about the change required to the Java Suite Library.  For example, will this require a minor version change?

Author: @theresalech Thanks, fixed in [4fa3de6](https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_evolution/pull/931/commits/4fa3de688b1fde3e0ecc427d0489d13bc42b77a6)

* Impacted Platforms: [Java Suite]

## Introduction
This proposal requires all current navigation apps to include a new permission (android.permission.ACCESS_WIFI_STATE) to benefit from the issue fix as follows:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Please remove this extra line.  I think it was included in my last suggestion by accident, sorry!

For example:
1. SDL failed to start video streaming if users enable WiFi on the head unit after the NaviAPP is activated.
https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_java_suite/issues/1235
2. SDL failed to start video streaming if users enable WiFi on the phone more than 150s after the NaviAPP is activated.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: @theresalech Thanks, fixed in [2abf8e3](https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_evolution/pull/931/commits/2abf8e3edafa267afd0f372992d2bb48f3fb14b6)
